Hi everyone!
Always in the section Python lists and how to access to list items.
List items are indexed and you can access them by referring to the index number.
You have a list with three items.
The first item has index zero.
In this example, we will print the second item which indexed by one second.
Negative indexing.
Negative indexing means start from the end.
Minus one refers to the last item, minus two refer to the second last item.
In this example, we will print the last item cherry and the last second item indexed by minus two,
which is banana.
In the third section range of indexes, you can specify a range of indexes by specifying where to start
and where to end the range.
When specifying a range, the return value will be a new list with the specified items In this example,
the start value is two and the end value is five.
Just start from zero.
We have zero, one and two.
Chitty has the index two.
After that orange three.
Kiwi 4 million.
It will be five but end value not included.
The final result?
It will be cherry, orange and kiwi.
Only three items.
What will be the result?
By leaving out the start value here we don't mention a start value.
In this case, the range will start at the first item.
We will start by the first item Apple.
Banana.
Cherry which have index two.
Orange index three.
Kiwi have the index four, but always the end value is not included.
The final result it will be only apple, banana, cherry and orange.
What will be the result?
By leaving out the end, value is the same.
The range will go on to the end of the list.
We will start by the index two, which is cherry until the end of the list for range of negative indexes.
Specify negative indexes if you want to start the search from the end of the list.
In this example minus one, it will be the last item.
Minus four it will be in this case orange minus one, minus two, minus three and minus four.
We will start by orange until the end of the list, but always the end value is not included.
The result it will be orange, kiwi and melon.
Three items.
Five check if item exists to determine if a if specified, item is present in a list.
We use the in keyword.
If you remember, we just see the in keyword in the operator.
Python membership operators.
Membership operators are used to test if a sequence is presented in an object in return.
True if a sequence with the specified value is present in the object and return false if not the case.
Let's go back to the Python list.
Apple is in the list.
The result it will be.
Yes, Apple is in the fruits list.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute each of this example.
To understand more about access to list items.
We just said that lists start from the index zero.
We'll print the second item banana, which indexed by one.
Let's execute the code.
The result is the second item.
Banana.
Let's.
Print.
The third item, which will be indexed by two.
The third item cherry indexed by two, and the first item indexed by zero.
The first item indexed by zero.
Apple.
Let's go to the second.
Negative indexing.
Negative indexing means start search from the end of the list.
Minus one.
Refer to the last item.
Let's execute the code.
The result is cherry banana.
It will be minus two.
And apple it will be minus three.
Range of indexes in range of indexes.
We.
We need to add a start value and add value.
Remember that always the end value is excluded is not included to the new list.
The start value is two.
The end value is five, which is not included, and x two means the item cherry orange three.
Kiwi 4 million is five but is not included.
The result it will be three items cherry, orange and Kiwi.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
We have the three item and melon which have the index.
Five is not included.
When we delete the start value, we don't mention a start value.
Python will start from the beginning of the list.
In this example, the result.
It will be started from the index 012345 not included.
It will be only five items from apple to kiwi.
Let's execute the code.
Five items apple, banana, cherry, orange and kiwi.
The same if we don't specify the end value, Python will start from the start value until the end of
the list.
Item two, which means cherry until the end of the list.
Let's execute the code and of the list is mango.
Here we don't mention the start value and Python will start from the beginning of the list.
In this example, we don't mention the end value and Python will start from the start value until the
end of the list.
What will be the result if we don't mention the start value and the end value, which means like that
Print.
My list.
Three.
We don't mention the start value and the end value.
In this case, Python will start from the beginning of the list until the end of the list.
In this case, it's one of the method which can use it to copy the list.
The result?
It will be all the items.
Let's execute the code.
Here we have all items of the list starting from the first item Apple until the end item mango.
This is one of three methods used to copy a list in Python, and we'll see that more in details in the
chapter copy lists in Python.
For range of negative indexes.
We can also create a new list with the range of negative indexes, starting the search by the end of
the list.
Here we have the last item minus one, the second last item minus two, minus three and orange.
It will be minus four.
We will start from minus four until minus one.
And always remember that the end value is not included.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
We have the three items starting by minus four orange, kiwi and melon.
For example, we update the start value.
We will start from the index minus five.
In this case it will be from cherry, not orange.
Let's do another example minus seven, which is the length of the list.
It will be from the first item Apple in negative index.
The first item it will be minus length.
Minus length of my list.
Let's execute the code again.
And the same result five.
Check if item exists in the list.
Here we'll check if the item Apple is in the list.
We use the membership operator in.
Use the code?
Yes.
Apple is in the fruit slit.
Let's do a small recap for this video.
List items are indexed and you can access them by referring to the index number.
We can use negative indexing to start search from the end of the list.
We can create a new list with the range of indexes in specifying the start value and the end value.
If we don't specify the start value, Python will start from the beginning of the list.
If we not specify the end value, Python, go until the end of the list.
In case we don't specify the start and the end value, Python will do a copy of the list.
Also, we can create a range or a new list with a negative indexes, and we can check the existing of
items via the membership operator in.
And that's it for this video.